Room count (Lara & Johannes) (#23)
compprog-lecture-tools/fun-contest-2023: cp23/hpi-fun2/roomcount/notes.md

Reviewer: I'll review the rest of the solution notes later ^^'

# Problem

> Find the chromatic number of an interval graph, which is equivalent to the maximum number of overlapping intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the chromatic number of a unit interval graph, which is equivalent to the maximum number of overlapping intervals.
```

# Solution
## First Step: Find the first/last interval

> Use Breadth-First-Search and remember the nodes that were found last.

Reviewer: Maybe clarify that these are those with maximum distance to the start node.

the last found nodes contain at least one of those.

Of these nodes, select the one with the lowest amount of edges. 
Since the intervals of all last found nodes overlap with each other and the first and last interval do not overlap with any additional intervals,
this node is either the first or last node or only has edges to the same nodes as on of them and can be used interchangebly, since it is part of the same overlaps.

Since it is irrelevant, wether the first node, last node, or a equivalent node is used in the next step, we are gonna refer to the selected node as the first node.

## Second Step: iterate through the intervals to find the maximum overlap
Use a priority queue, that compares nodes by a score that is the amount of intervals that started, before their corresponding interval ended. Since the intervals are equal length,
the higher that score is, the later that interval occured. For the first node and all it's neighbors, the score is exactly the number of their edges.

In each step, the nodes with the lowest score can be removed and a node with the next lowest score can be used to find the next nodes to be added to the queue.

> Their score can be calculated as the sum of their edges and the number of nodes that have already been remove from the queue.

Reviewer: It isn't really the sum of their edges since they are not weighted, you mean the degree, right?

> Repeat this step until no new nodes are found and track the maximum size of the queue.

Reviewer: It is not quite clear to me why this should work. Maybe give some kind of intuition instead of an algorithm description.

Reviewer: Also may want to take a look at my "solution" if you are curios. I'm not quite convinced from it and I was surprised that it ACed. Maybe this is fine, but I'd be more than happy to add a .wa.cpp suffix if you are able to hack my solution - as I did not have the time yet to think about some kind of proof ^^'

Reviewer: Ok, I think my solution _must_ be hackable.

Author: #### Suggestion for an alternative description for step 2

The first node and it's neighbors are the first set of overlapping nodes/intervals. Starting from that set, you can get the next set of overlapping nodes/intervals by evicting the nodes corresponding to the earliest intervals and adding the next found nodes. The order intervals originally occured in can be decucted from the order the nodes are found in and their degree. Using this strategy, iterate through all possible overlaps in the current component and track the maximum size of any overlap found.

- What do you think about this text?
